---
title: Nakiri Workers
---

import 'nextra-theme-docs/style.css';

# Nakiri Workers

Nakiri Workers is a separate service that allows you to set up worker pools for
monitoring keywords as well as cleaning up the blacklists and updating them with
metadata. From an end-user endpoint, you will only really care about the former.

## What are monitored keywords?

**Monitored keywords** allow you to instruct the pool of workers to monitor a
set of keywords on YouTube. These keywords are created on a per-guild basis and
use Discord-compatible webhooks to send notifications to a channel. The channel
does not actually have to be in the same guild as the keyword, as specifying a
guild is merely for access-control purposes.

## How does it work?

There are two separate worker types in Nakiri Workers:

- **Keyword monitors** are user-instructed and will run at an interval specified
  using the `WORKER_SCAN_INTERVAL` environment variable in the app. By default,
  this is set to 12 hours.
- **Cleanup workers** will run at an interval specified using the
  `WORKER_CLEANUP_INTERVAL` environment variable in the app. By default, this is
  set to 24 hours.

The cleanup worker will run through every single blacklist entry in the YouTube
video and channel blacklists and check if they are available. If they are not,
they will be removed from the blacklist. This is merely to keep the database
clean while also minimizing used storage and compute time.

The keyword monitors will scan YouTube for the latest videos that reference any
of the monitored keywords. If a video is found, it will be added to a designated
list of videos that belong to the keyword. You can access this list by clicking
on the keyword in the web UI. Apart from adding the video to the list, the
worker will also send a notification to the webhook specified in the keyword's
entry.

This is done using the YouTube data API, which is a bit janky at times with very
unpredictable results. The YouTube search API is also very rate-limited, which
is the reason why the keyword monitors are run at such a large interval. Sadly,
in its current form, this is not scalable enough, however in the future, we can
look into the possibility of connecting your own YouTube API-compatible app and
use that instead.
